# Christmas Images Classification Challenge

Kaggle link for challenge: https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/deep-learning-classification-challenge-ws2223/leaderboard

* Here, I developed a complete deep-learning pipeline capable of loading the dataset, training it and hence categorizing distinct Christmas-themed photos into specific groups.
* The images were provided such that they were divided into 2 separate folders of training and validation datasets. The training dataset was further divided into 8 different classes/labels arranged in their respective folders named after the class. The validation dataset was not given any label.
* A custom Dataset class was created and implemented which loaded the data from the given path and its label was also taken. The validation dataset was only arranged in ascending order. The transformation was also done within the custom Dataset class.
* I used the pre-trained ResNet-50 Model and froze all base layers in the "features" section of the model by setting requires_grad=False. 
* Only the final linear layer had required_grad=True. The output features were also made equal to the number of classes present with us.
* Post training, the model has to be saved into a .pkl and then make a set of predictions on the validation dataset and a CSV file has to be saved with all the predictions.
* Achieved an accuracy of 93.7% on the test dataset by fine-tuning the model. The result was obtained by uploading the CSV file generated by the code into the Kaggle website where the competition was active (Refer link).
* Refer to the Jupyter Notebook file `Christmas_image_classifier.ipynb` for the entire pipeline.
